when your brain sends messages to
different parts of your body
the signals travel along your nerves at
a speed of up to 270 miles per hour it's
way faster than a sports car smell that
you probably smell a lot of things every
day but you'll never guess how many
smells the human brain can memorize in a
lifetime
50,000 and that's why different smells
can immediately spark a specific memory
people lie more convincingly when they
have to go to the bathroom now in 2015
researchers from Claremont Graduate
University and California State
University found that people with a full
bladder like way more convincingly than
they normally do there are about 30
trillion human cells in your body but if
that sounds like a lot listen to this
there are ten times more bacteria one of
the most slippery substances in the
world is the lubricant in your knees
it's called synovial fluid and it has a
similar consistency to egg whites this
substance does a great job at reducing
the friction in your knees letting you
get around nice and smooth you might
have heard that a person is usually a
bit taller in the morning than they are
in the evening as for the height of the
Eiffel Tower it changes depending on the
weather when you are awake your brain is
known to generate electricity in the
amount of about 15 to 25 watts this
power is quite enough to keep a low
wattage LED lamp shining women see more
colors ever argued with your female
friend over those white curtains that
she claimed to be either eggshell or
cream
well that's due to women seeing on
average 20% more differences in colors
and shapes but not so pleasant truth is
that an adult body produces about one
and a half litres of snot a day now you
may not notice this because we swallow
most of it without paying too much
attention to it
yup adults have about 10,000 receptors
in their mouths a number that is cut in
half by the age of 60
however scientists have recently found
that receptors of sourness are also
located in the heart to help it
recognize infections a second of our
site would be equal to the volume of
21.4 five gigabytes a one-second iPhone
video is only 375 megabytes
have you ever noticed how women and men
turn when they're called pay attention
next time and you'll see that men turn
their whole bodies while women just turn
their heads the reason for this
difference lies in the much more elastic
muscle structure in the female body
recent research shows that music
especially the one that contains a
continuous increase in volume or tempo
makes your heartbeat synchronize with it
it is relevant for both musicians and
amateurs or simply music lovers people
with bigger heads usually have lower
neuron density within their brain which
naturally makes it work quicker and more
efficiently the little gullies and hills
of the inside of your ears are nowhere
else to be found you can be sure that no
one has the same shape of ears as you
scientists from the UK have even
developed a method of identifying a
person by measuring the reflection of
light off the curves inside the ears
it's kind of embarrassing when you have
to explain to someone why you're
constantly winking at them if your eye
starts to twitch occasionally it's a
signal that you're dealing with stress
or having a hard time trying to get a
good sleep well it's much more apparent
in some jellyfish and other sea
creatures every living being on this
planet emits light yep humans included
this effect is called bioluminescence
and the only difference in our case is
that we can't see this light at all how
often do you find yourself biting your
lips one reason you do is psychological
this bad habit appears with stress and
anxiety our brain gives our body in
order to bite our lips so that we think
less about problems and calm down
your brain is the best video editor your
eyes are constantly taking separate
pictures and moving all the time to make
a full image of your surroundings you
don't notice that because your brain
makes it all smooth by stabilizing the
image and editing different fragments
into one seamless flow the average
person will grow six hundred miles of
hair in a lifetime that's about the
distance from New York City to Dayton
Ohio it's a very hairy distance let's
say you want to spend some fun time in
the Sun then suddenly you start to
sneeze and everyone is too worried to
let you out not cool but absolutely
natural
it's called photic sneeze response and
it possibly not 100% happens because
nerves that usually make you sneeze
interact with the optic nerve that gets
kind of overwhelmed by the strong
sensation of bright light an average
human burns 2500 calories during the day
depending on their size and metabolism
that's more than enough energy to boil a
little under 2 gallons of water
remember our distant ancestors used to
climb trees like monkeys so they use
both their hands and feet for that they
had longer toes though and overall more
flexible feet today even foot grabbing a
pen that's fallen on the floor is not an
easy task in their lifetime the average
person processes more than 100,000
pounds of food that's more than the
weight of seven elephants combined and
how do you eat an elephant yep one bite
at a time
did you know 90% of people can't
remember what they dreamed about the
night before you dream during the REM
phase of sleep which takes up 20% of
your sleeping time and occurs every 90
minutes if you happen to wake up during
this phase you're more likely to
remember your dream or at least the last
one you had your hearing gets worse
after having a good lunch I told you not
to stuff that banana in your ear
no it's not that have you ever had
ringing in your ears after a full meal
it happens because drinks and food
affect the fluid levels in the inner ear
and therefore cause noise people have
fewer genes than a worm as for a tomato
it has way more genes than you do
how is this possible after all we are
such a complicated species well
scientists recently concluded that the
number of genes a genome contains isn't
closely connected with the complexity of
a living being the brain needs as much
energy as a 10 watt light bulb and it
doesn't matter if you're asleep or awake
what's more your brain helps you stay
fit a study involving nearly 300 women
has proven that frequent consumption of
coffee leads to a decrease in breast
size an adult skin weighs around
seventeen point six pounds or more on
average making up sixteen percent of the
total body weight you would probably
never say so but it is the largest organ
of the human body
the average woman will eat four pounds
of lipstick in her lifetime when you
take the average number of lipsticks
bought throughout a lifetime and their
average wearability it comes down to
women licking off or eating with food
about four pounds of lipstick in their
life that translates to five hundred and
thirty three point seven six lipsticks
just like the rest of your body your
muscles are capable of so much more than
you know back in 1982
Angela Cavallo lifted a 1964 Chevrolet
Impala in Lawrenceville our stomach
contains hydrochloric acid having heated
the stomach acid up to 98 degrees
Fahrenheit scientists placed iron blades
and an alkali battery in it after 24
hours the blade lost 63 percent of its
mass
63 percent can you imagine and the
battery withstood the assault for more
than a day the brain has approximately
100 billion neurons each of which
creates about 1000 potential synapses
that store data if everything is multi
applied it turns out that the brain
theoretically has 100 terabytes of
information for comparison one of the
most powerful supercomputers in the
world Titan has a total system memory of
710 terabytes men have been found to
have higher brain volumes which plays a
big role in emotions if someone decided
to uncoil the human DNA the whole thing
would stretch for 10 billion miles which
is 40,000 times more than the distance
between the Earth and Moon a big head is
often accompanied by a broad forehead
another sign of exceptional intelligence
according to the popular Chinese face
reading a Fivefinger forehead signifies
high intelligence and skill your parry
ocular region is the area just around
the eyes that includes the bridge of
your nose and your eyebrows scientists
say this is a very reliable way to
identify someone even without
sophisticated equipment not only the
eyes can serve as our biomedical ID but
the zone immediately around them - we're
all familiar with uncontrollable
chattering teeth and shivering legs when
we're called this happens because all
your muscles are slightly yet rapidly
moving to generate some heat from
friction the human heart is a small but
powerful engine in one day it pumps
blood so effectively that it travels
around 12,000 miles to run through every
vessel in your body is the most ticklish
areas the armpits and the stomach happen
to cover vital organs and arteries so
Nature has made them very sensitive
response to that sensation can border on
pleasure since all those nerves are
being stimulated and fear for your
important innards so you immediately try
to guard these areas laugh until you cry
and beg the tickler to please stop your
body is the whole world don't like the
number on the scales give yourself a
break from two to five pounds of all
your body weight doesn't even belong to
you but to microscopic life that lives
inside us off
in the human mouth alone more bacteria
live than people on earth yet burp in
space really try it can't go to space
well trust me burping happens when
liquid separates from gas in the stomach
and this only occurs thanks to gravity
some people judge others by their
handshake even before an important
interview starts it's not fair but it's
the way it is in reality we can't
control it if our hands turn stone-cold
your whole body prepares for a critical
situation it prevents blood from going
to your skin so more of it goes to vital
organs and muscles you need to maintain
relatively the same 2500 calories in a
day to maintain yourself in the same
shape you currently are and most of the
time this happens naturally it's all
balanced by you just feeling full enough
to go on with your day as usual one of
the theory says that we've retained
thick hair on our heads because of our
upright position when we stand the most
exposed to the Sun is exactly the head
and the layer of hair helps protect the
skin and brain from Atty humans are born
with close to 300 bones and cartilage
elements but by the time they grow up
they have around 206 kids tend to grow
way faster in the spring than in any
other season because of the Sun activity
during this period so yeah kids are
basically like flowers from the very
beginning of their lives women are
better at reading faces gesture and
voice tones which makes them superior
conversation lists and social leaders it
seems like our bodies themselves know
how fabulous they are because they
totally glow a study from the Department
of Electronics and intelligent systems
of Tohoku Institute of Technology in
Japan Wow is that whole thing fit on a
sign hey it showed us that our body
literally glimmers breast milk contains
hundreds of useful substances that can
help a child grow and develop immunity
it's recently been discovered that milk
changes its content
and consistency to adjust for a baby
during feeding according to the
scientific channel veritasium by 2020
the volume of all stored information of
humanity will reach 40 zettabytes now
compare the human body already contains
60 zettabytes of data women are more
prone to having cellulite and that isn't
a bad thing by modern societal standards
of beauty cellulite is perceived as
something that one should be ashamed of
it and the fact that 98% of people with
cellulite are ladies
versus only 2% who are men just puts
even more pressure on women to look a
certain way if you don't have insomnia
you're likely to spend around one third
of your life asleep but there are
creatures that sleep even more for
example for a dog this time is 44
percent of their life and for a Python
75 percent as it turns out the eyes are
the windows not only to your soul but to
your IQ levels and according to
scientists blue eyes take the lead here
if your fingerprints are unique
why wouldn't toe prints be cell your
toes are just like fingers except
they're on your feet and they also have
those swirling patterns on their soft
parts some scientists even think that
toe printing is a better way to collect
biometric data about an individual
because toe patterns are less likely to
be erased
basically yawning isn't only supposed to
happen when you're sleepy or bored it's
just the most common circumstances for
it
fun fact parachutists often yawn right
before they get ready to jump from a
plane your lungs are capable of forcing
their out of them so hard that it moves
almost at the speed of sound
okay one-third the speed of sound but
still this is for particularly
boisterous coughs coming from a pretty
large set of lungs like this
we get visible armpit stains at the most
inopportune moments during a speech on a
date at a job interview I know it's
embarrassing but your body is trying to
protect you it releases sweat in
response to any danger or stress your
unique and more than one way there are
no two identical brains in the world
brain structure highly depends on
conditions in which it develops and
grows and therefore we all have
something individual to us even on a
biological level adults may blink an
average of 15 times a minute but babies
do it only once or twice a minute the
reason is still unknown to scientists
just don't challenge any babies to a
staring contest your stomach growls when
it jump-starts a digestive process even
though you didn't eat anything recently
take it as a signal to go munch on
something yet even a glass of water can
help
it'll fill your belly until you have a
chance to eat something proper the
average human stomach can hold just one
gallon of water and the old principle of
if it fits it's it's won't work here it
may fit but it won't sit for long some
humans have kept more genetic material
from their ancestors than the others and
you can probably say they evolved less
according to one version we're now
moving to a time when men and women will
be mostly similar in size and looks if
you were to go into outer space
you'd probably grow up to two inches
taller nASA says this cosmic growth
spurt is due to the lack of gravity
you'd be exposed to the resolution of a
human eye is 140 mega pixels if the
human eye was a digital camera its
resolution would be about 120 to 140
mega pixels only these pixels wouldn't
be evenly distributed the center of the
eye has about 200,000 color receptors
while the sides aren't that impressive
sometimes the life duration differences
between men and women can be up to a
decade but on average it's at least two
to three years all over the world
newborn babies are not only incredibly
adorable but also very strong for their
size and weight for example if a baby
grasped a horizontal bar it would hang
there for a long time without getting
tired scientists recently claimed that
the way to a woman's heart is also
through her stomach we get kinder when
we're satiated we feel butterflies in
our stomach when we're in love and when
we flush with embarrassment our gastric
mucous also turns red the genetic
information of a person occupies only
1.5 gigabytes of memory just like the
operating system iOS tab you surely
notice that most women have a lower
tolerance to alcohol than their male
compadres well this is basically due to
the fact that the female body has less
water in its tissues than the male body
a kidney of an adult isn't big at all in
fact its size can be compared to that of
a fist it's hard to imagine the biggest
kidney stone ever its weight was two and
a half pounds and it looked like a
coconut it's common knowledge that the
intervertebral discs aren't as firmly
adjoined to one another when we're
asleep as when we're awake and by
morning a person becomes 0.3 to 0.7
inches taller about 100,000 chemical
reactions per second happen in the brain
which means that its speed is equivalent
to that of the shanghai maglev train one
of the fastest trains on the planet
which easily reaches 270 miles per hour
or 430 kilometers per hour complete ear
symmetry is not that common and it's
probably for the better since studies
say that a lack of it may be a signal of
a quick way in sci-fi and action movies
you've probably seen retinal scanners
these things do exist because your
retina is indeed unique in fact it's an
exact copy of your whole nervous
system when startled or just scared your
legs might become as heavy as tree
trunks your heart will be pumping and
your skin will get covered in goose
bumps these are all result of the same
process a reaction to adrenaline coming
into your blood flow it has a special
mechanism to manage going underwater
it's called the diving reflex and it's
in almost every kind of mammal including
humans this reflex redistributes oxygen
in your body by channeling it to your
heart and brain ever stood up too fast
and gotten dizzy and lightheaded when
you quickly go from a lying position to
a standing one the blood in your body
drops to your feet and legs
thanks a lot gravity luckily your body
recovers quickly and blood flow returns
to your brain easing the dizzy feeling
hungry hungry gray matter the brain
takes only 2% of your whole body weight
but it's such a powerhouse that it
requires 20% of the energy you consume
even while you sleep in fact it's even
more active well it seems like you're
just resting or wandering in dreamland
after birth many babies have blue eyes
that go darker with time it's because
the amount of melanin the pigment that
gives your eyes hair and skin their
color in the irises gradually increases
during the first couple years if you
can't stop eating chocolate when
stressed out you should know that it's
the way your brain tells you that is
hungry the brain is a greedy little
powerhouse being only 2% of total body
mass it grabs 20% of all consumed energy
even when it rests give it some stress
and it will crave for a lot more and the
main fuel for it is sugar for an
ordinary person anything beyond 2,500
calories per day would lead to gaining
excess weight this is how it happens
anything that our body can't make good
use of immediately will be put away for
later this is the natural way to stack
energy for a rainy day kind of like how
we save money in the bank for future use
well Australia pithos emails could grow
about 50% larger than females in Homo
sapiens that's you this difference is
about 15% and soon it might disappear
altogether but evolution is not a rapid
thing